1. Introduction

The Pickle Rick room is a beginner-to-intermediate web exploitation challenge inspired by the TV show Rick and Morty. The goal is to compromise a web server, gain command execution, and locate three hidden ingredients across the system.

The attack path involved reconnaissance, service enumeration, directory brute-forcing, credential discovery, and privilege escalation.

2. Reconnaissance

Initial reconnaissance focused on identifying exposed web resources.

Accessing robots.txt revealed an unusual entry:
Wubbalubbadubdub


Inspecting the webpage source revealed a hardcoded username:
R1ckRul3s


These findings strongly suggested credentials were being leaked through basic web reconnaissance.

3. Enumeration
3.1 Network Scanning

An Nmap scan identified the following open ports and services:
Port	Service	Version
22	SSH	OpenSSH 8.2p1 (Ubuntu)
80	HTTP	Apache 2.4.41

The web server on port 80 was identified as the primary attack surface.

3.2 Web Directory Enumeration

Using Gobuster, several accessible directories and files were discovered:
/assets/
/index.html
/robots.txt
/server-status (403 Forbidden)

This confirmed that the application relied on classic web directory structures.

3.3 Admin Panel Discovery

Using ffuf with an admin panel wordlist revealed a login page:
/login.php


At this point, the previously discovered username (R1ckRul3s) and the value found in robots.txt were tested as credentials.

Credentials Used:
Username: R1ckRul3s
Password: Wubbalubbadubdub

Login was successful.

4. Exploitation

Upon logging in, access was gained to a command execution portal. Directory listing revealed several interesting files:
Sup3rS3cretPickl3Ingred.txt
clue.txt
portal.php
denied.php

4.1 Command Restrictions Bypass

Attempting to use commands such as cat resulted in the following message:
Command disabled to make it hard for future PICKLEEEE RICCCKKKK.


To bypass this restriction, the strings command was used instead.

5. Ingredient Collection
5.1 First Ingredient

Using:
strings Sup3rS3cretPickl3Ingred.txt

Result:
mr. meeseek hair


First ingredient obtained.

Note: Due to a bug in the room, the first ingredient automatically populated the answer fields.

5.2 Second Ingredient

Clue analysis using:
strings clue.txt

Output:
Look around the file system for the other ingredient.


User context was confirmed:
whoami
www-data


Further enumeration revealed a file in Rick’s home directory:
/home/rick/second ingredients


Extracting strings from the file revealed:
jerry tear


Second ingredient obtained.

5.3 Privilege Escalation & Third Ingredient

Checking sudo permissions:
sudo -l

Result:
(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL


This indicated full root access without a password.

Navigating to the root directory:
sudo ls /root

Revealed:
3rd.txt


Extracting the contents:
sudo strings /root/3rd.txt

Result:
fleeb juice


Third ingredient obtained.

6. Conclusion

All three ingredients were successfully retrieved:
Mr. Meeseek Hair
Jerry Tear
Fleeb Juice

The room demonstrated common web exploitation techniques including:

Credential leakage via robots.txt
Directory brute-forcing
Command execution under restrictions
File system enumeration
Privilege escalation through misconfigured sudo permissions
Despite a minor room bug that auto-filled answers early, the challenge was completed without walkthroughs and reinforced fundamental penetration testing concepts.

ROOM COMPLETE
